Released 2023-10-23

Download :ghrelease:`this release on GitHub <DDS-3.26>`.

Read `the documentation for this release on Read the Docs <https://opendds.readthedocs.io/en/dds-3.26>`__.

Additions
=========

- OpenDDS can now be built using CMake for most common scenarios. (:ghpr:`4203`, :ghpr:`4214`)

  - This is still considered somewhat experimental as it doesn't support :ref:`everything that an MPC-built OpenDDS currently can <cmake-known-limitations>`.
  - See :ref:`cmake-building` for details.

- Convert transport configurations (``rtps_udp``, ``multicast``, ``shmem``, ``tcp``, ``udp``) uses key-value store. (:ghpr:`4162`, :ghpr:`4270`, :ghpr:`4272`, :ghpr:`4241`, :ghpr:`4242`, :ghpr:`4243`, :ghpr:`4249`, :ghpr:`4255`)

- CMake Config Package

  - Added :cmake:func:`opendds_install_interface_files` to help install IDL files and the files generated from them. (:ghpr:`4203`, :ghpr:`4214`)
  - Added :cmake:var:`OPENDDS_HOST_TOOLS` and :cmake:var:`OPENDDS_ACE_TAO_HOST_TOOLS` to allow cross compiling applications with both MPC and CMake-built OpenDDS. (:ghpr:`4203`, :ghpr:`4214`)

  - :cmake:func:`opendds_target_sources`:

    - Added :cmake:func:`opendds_target_sources(INCLUDE_BASE)` to preserve the directory structure of the IDL files for compiling the resulting generated files and installing everything using :cmake:func:`opendds_install_interface_files`. (:ghpr:`4203`, :ghpr:`4214`)
    - Added :cmake:func:`opendds_target_sources(USE_VERSIONED_NAMESPACE)` as a shortcut to the ``-Wb,versioning_*`` IDL compiler options. (:ghpr:`4203`, :ghpr:`4214`)

- Support sending DynamicDataAdapter sample via DynamicDataWriter (:ghpr:`4226`)
- Added export macro to ConditionImpl (:ghpr:`4295`)

Deprecations
============

- Deprecated :cmake:var:`OPENDDS_FILENAME_ONLY_INCLUDES` in favor of :cmake:func:`opendds_target_sources(INCLUDE_BASE)`. (:ghpr:`4203`, :ghpr:`4214`)

Fixes
=====

- Improved the :ref:`subject name <dds_security--subject-name>` parsing to better conform to the DDS Security spec. (:ghpr:`4201`)

  - The order of attributes in subject names is now significant when comparing them.

- Remove from TypeLookupService when remote endpoint is removed from SEDP (:ghpr:`4216`)
- WaitSet is now notified when DataWriter liveliness is lost. (:ghpr:`4223`)

- ICE doesn't use IPv4-mapped IPv6 addresses anymore. (:ghpr:`4230`)

- Efficiency: Remove per-element locking in JobQueue (:ghpr:`4253`)
- RtpsRelay: fixed bug in record_activity's use of remove in GuidAddrSet (:ghpr:`4254`)
- Fix warnings in typeobject_generator when using TAO 3 (:ghpr:`4262`)
- Fix null pointer when participant is absent when updating locators (:ghpr:`4265`)
- Initialize variables in TypeObject to silence warnings (:ghpr:`4292`)
- RtpsRelay: Use ACE_Message_Block's locking strategy for cached SPDP to fix tsan warning (:ghpr:`4293`)
- Fix tsan warning in ReactorTask (:ghpr:`4298`)

Documentation
=============

- Removed documentation for ``-Grapidjson`` option of ``opendds_idl`` that was removed in 3.20.0 (:ghpr:`4231`)
- Remove reference to mailing lists (:ghpr:`4234`)
- Restructured parts of :ref:`dds_security` page and expanded documentation of some XML security document elements. (:ghpr:`4281`)
- OS-specific instructions will now be automatically selected based on the browser's user agent. (:ghpr:`4281`)
- OMG specification section references are now links to that section in the specification PDF. (:ghpr:`4281`)
- Move build and install instructions to DevGuide (:ghpr:`4294`)
- Incorporate the quick start guides, FAQ, and shapes demo into the DevGuide. (:ghpr:`4297`)

Notes
=====

- Using Perl 5.38.0 might prevent TAO from building properly, see `here <https://github.com/DOCGroup/ACE_TAO/issues/2148>`__ for details.

