Released 2023-07-20

Download :ghrelease:`this release on GitHub <DDS-3.25>`.

Read `the documentation for this release on Read the Docs <https://opendds.readthedocs.io/en/dds-3.25>`__.

Additions
=========

- The Observer interface now has support for dispose and unregister. (:ghpr:`4137`)
- OpenDDS now stores configuration information in a key-value store. (:ghpr:`4138`, :ghpr:`4134`, :ghpr:`4151`)

  - Configuration values can be set via API, config file, or command line.

    - Currently applies to the `common` section and common transport configuration.
- Added ``encode_to_string``, ``encode_to_bytes``, ``decode_from_string``, and ``decode_from_bytes`` to ``TypeSupport``. (:ghpr:`4144`, :ghpr:`4122`, :ghpr:`4133`, :ghpr:`4135`)

  - These methods convert samples to and from other formats.
  - Currently only ``OpenDDS::DCPS::JSON_DATA_REPRESENTATION`` is supported.
- Add ``-Gequality`` option to opendds_idl to generate ``==`` and ``!=`` for structs and unions. (:ghpr:`4154`)

  - The members of the struct or union must have a type that could appear in a DDS topic and be supported by opendds_idl.

  - The motivation for this change was to make the generated code more useful as many users go on to define these operators.

- CMake Config Package

  - Added :ref:`executable targets <cmake-executables>`. (:ghpr:`4160`)
  - :cmake:var:`OPENDDS_CMAKE_VERBOSE` output has been expanded, but now accepts a list of categories to control how much is logged. (:ghpr:`4160`)
  - Added :cmake:func:`opendds_export_header` to generate an export header. (:ghpr:`4160`)

  - :cmake:func:`opendds_target_sources`:

    - Added :cmake:func:`opendds_target_sources(GENERATE_SERVER_SKELETONS)` to allow ``tao_idl`` to generate code for CORBA servers. (:ghpr:`4140`)
    - Added :cmake:func:`opendds_target_sources(AUTO_LINK)` as a fine-grained version of :cmake:var:`OPENDDS_AUTO_LINK_DCPS`. (:ghpr:`4140`)
    - Added :cmake:func:`opendds_target_sources(SKIP_TAO_IDL)` to disable ``tao_idl``. (:ghpr:`4140`)
    - Added :cmake:func:`opendds_target_sources(SKIP_OPENDDS_IDL)` to disable ``opendds_idl``. (:ghpr:`4140`)
    - Added :cmake:func:`opendds_target_sources(USE_EXPORT)` to allow overriding the generated export header with an existing one. (:ghpr:`4160`)

  - Libraries and features can be passed to ``find_package(OpenDDS COMPONENTS)`` to change what is required. (:ghpr:`4160`, :ghpr:`4140`)

    - See :ref:`cmake-components` for details.

Security
========

- Fixed null pointer exception caused by RTPS Parameters with incorrect zero size. (:ghpr:`4197`)

Fixes
=====

- CMake Config Package

  - Made linking dependencies and macro definitions closer match using MPC with OpenDDS and TAO. (:ghpr:`4140`)
  - Fixed issues with passing ``OPENDDS_IDL_OPTIONS -SI`` to ``opendds_target_sources``. (:ghpr:`4140`)

- Fixed issue deserializing bounded sequences with JSON (:ghpr:`4150`)

  - The deserialization will fail if the JSON input contains more elements than the bounded sequence can hold.
- Updated the RtpsRelay's tracking of client IP addresses so they are removed when no longer used. (:ghpr:`4202`)

  - The RtpsRelay configuration option -MaxAddrSetSize was renamed to -MaxIpsPerClient

Documentation
=============

- Moved various markdown files into the Sphinx documentation so that they are now included along with the Developer's Guide: (:ghpr:`4139`)

  - ``INSTALL.md`` is now :doc:`/devguide/building/index`.
  - ``docs/dependencies.md`` is now :doc:`/devguide/building/dependencies`.
  - ``docs/cmake.md`` is now :doc:`/devguide/building/cmake`.
  - ``docs/android.md`` is now :doc:`/devguide/building/android`.
  - ``docs/ios.md`` is now :doc:`/devguide/building/ios`.

- Restructured how the documentation is presented to cleanly separate the Developer's Guide and internal documentation. (:ghpr:`4139`)
- Added a :doc:`proper main page </index>`. (:ghpr:`4139`)
- Added :doc:`/glossary`. (:ghpr:`4139`)
- In addition to :ghfile:`NEWS.md`, started adding release notes to :doc:`/news`. (:ghpr:`4125`)

Notes
=====

- CMake Config Package

  - ``OPENDDS_TARGET_SOURCES`` is now called ``opendds_target_sources``. (:ghpr:`4140`)

    - CMake macros and functions names are case insensitive, so this should have no effect on CMake code.

