Released 2025-05-06

Download :ghrelease:`this release on GitHub <v3.32.0>`.

Read `the documentation for this release on Read the Docs <https://opendds.readthedocs.io/en/v3.32.0>`__.

Additions
=========

- Added :option:`RtpsRelay -LogUtilizationChanges` to RtpsRelay options (:ghpr:`4890`)

- Added :option:`opendds_idl --append-typeobjects` to opendds_idl options.  It can be used to write XTypes Type Objects to a separate output file in addition to normal code generation. (:ghpr:`4898`)

- Added :option:`RtpsRelay -SynchronousOutput` option to RtpsRelay. (:ghpr:`4928`)
- The TypeLookupService now has support for strongly connected components (recursive types). (:ghpr:`4940`)

Platform Support and Dependencies
=================================

- ACE/TAO

  - Updated ACE 8/TAO 4 from 8.0.2 to `8.0.3 <https://github.com/DOCGroup/ACE_TAO/releases/tag/ACE%2BTAO-8_0_3>`__.

- CMake

  - :cmake:func:`opendds_target_sources`

    - Added support for using the same IDL files in different targets with different options. (:ghpr:`4962`)
    - It will not automatically generate an export header when all IDL files are scoped ``PRIVATE`` unless :cmake:func:`opendds_target_sources(ALWAYS_GENERATE_LIB_EXPORT_HEADER)` is set to ``TRUE``. (:ghpr:`4962`)
    - It will not export symbols in code generated from ``PRIVATE`` IDL files. (:ghpr:`4962`)
    - Added support for the `codegen <https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/policy/CMP0171.html>`__ target (CMake 3.31 or later) to build and run IDL compilers on targets with IDL. (:ghpr:`4962`)
    - :cmake:func:`opendds_target_sources(USE_EXPORT)` will now pass on its arguments to :cmake:func:`opendds_export_header(EXISTING)`. (:ghpr:`4964`)

  - Fixes and improvements for :cmake:func:`opendds_export_header`: (:ghpr:`4954`)

    - ``opendds_export_header`` now allows specifying an existing export header and gives control over what names are used.

    - ``opendds_export_header`` and :cmake:func:`opendds_target_sources` now set symbol visibility to hidden using `CXX_VISIBILITY_PRESET <https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/prop_tgt/LANG_VISIBILITY_PRESET.html>`__ and `VISIBILITY_INLINES_HIDDEN <https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/prop_tgt/VISIBILITY_INLINES_HIDDEN.html>`__ on platforms where this applies.

    - Fixed Visual Studio failing because of inconsistent linkage of exported symbols when linking between a DLL and a static library.

  - Fixed :ghissue:`issue with building iShapes demo with CMake <4849>`. (:ghpr:`4884`)
  - Improved C++ standard detection in CMake. (:ghpr:`4884`)
  - Added :cmake:func:`opendds_bigobj` to set ``/bigobj`` on targets that need it on Windows. (:ghpr:`4954`)
  - When using CMake 4, fixed relative path issues when working within a symlinked directory, including a warning about `CMP0177 <https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/policy/CMP0177.html>`__. (:ghpr:`4959`)
  - Fixed :ghissue:`issue with CMake being unable to find RapidJSON <4905>` after installing OpenDDS. (:ghpr:`4973`)

  - Fixed reconfigured cross-compiled builds trying to use ``TRUE`` as the path to host tools. (:ghpr:`4986`)

  - Building OpenDDS with CMake

    - The :ref:`shapes-demo` will now be built when :ref:`cmake-building` and :cmake:var:`OPENDDS_QT` is set to ``TRUE``. (:ghpr:`4884`)
    - Improved support for using Xerces 3.3.0 when building OpenDDS using CMake. (:ghpr:`4926`)
    - GoogleTest will no longer be installed if it was built as part of the OpenDDS tests. (:ghpr:`4973`)
    - Added :cmake:var:`OPENDDS_INSTALL_RAPIDJSON` to disable installing RapidJSON automatically. (:ghpr:`4973`)
    - :cmake:var:`OPENDDS_ACE` and :cmake:var:`OPENDDS_TAO` can now be overrode after OpenDDS is installed. (:ghpr:`4973`)
    - Fixed :cmake:var:`OPENDDS_COMPILE_WARNINGS=ERROR <OPENDDS_COMPILE_WARNINGS>`, which didn't work before. (:ghpr:`4986`)

- Updated GoogleTest to be compatible with CMake 4. (:ghpr:`4959`)

- OpenDDS's use of ``std::optional`` or an emulation is determined by the configuration file (:ghpr:`4976`)

  - See ``OPENDDS_CONFIG_STD_OPTIONAL`` in ``dds/OpenDDSConfig.h``
  - Default is to use ``std::optional`` on compilers that support it
  - See configure script's ``--no-std-optional`` or CMake's :cmake:var:`OPENDDS_STD_OPTIONAL`
- New configure script option: ``--[no-]static-runtime`` (:ghpr:`4977`, :ghpr:`4983`)

Fixes
=====

- Added ``RTPS_HARVEST_THREAD_STATUS`` property to select the participant that harvests thread status. (:ghpr:`4887`)

  - This addresses erroneous results from multiple participants harvesting thread status.

  - See :ref:`built_in_topics--openddsinternalthread-topic` for usage.
- Signal the thread monitor in RtpsRelay listeners to avoid thread monitor timeouts. (:ghpr:`4900`)
- Introduced a time separation when processed expired discovered participants with RtpsDiscovery. (:ghpr:`4908`)

  - See :cfg:prop:`[rtps_discovery]MinimumCleanupSeparation`.

Documentation
=============

- Fixed minor typo in documentation of :ref:`ace6tao2` option of :cmake:var:`OPENDDS_ACE_TAO_KIND`. (:ghpr:`4884`)

