Released 2025-08-01

Download :ghrelease:`this release on GitHub <v3.33.0>`.

Read `the documentation for this release on Read the Docs <https://opendds.readthedocs.io/en/v3.33.0>`__.

Additions
=========

- IDL Maps are now supported by ``opendds_idl``. (:ghpr:`4999`)

  - We would like to thank `tmayoff <https://github.com/tmayoff>`__ for contributing much of the work needed for this.
  - Usage example:

    .. code-block:: omg-idl

      @nested
      struct Item {
        string desc_name;
        uint32 count;
      };

      @topic
      struct Inventory {
        map<string, Item> items;
      };

  - They map to C++ ``std::map`` in both the classic IDL-to-C++ and IDL-to-C++11 mappings.
  - See :ref:`introduction--idl-compliance` for known limitations.

- RtpsRelay

  - Output from :option:`RtpsRelay -LogRelayStatistics` / :option:`RtpsRelay -PublishRelayStatistics` includes extended RtpsRelay statistics (:ghpr:`4972`, :ghpr:`5006`)
  - Output from :option:`RtpsRelay -LogRelayStatistics` / :option:`RtpsRelay -PublishRelayStatistics` includes internal OpenDDS statistics (:ghpr:`5000`, :ghpr:`5006`, :ghpr:`4990`, :ghpr:`5023`)
  - RtpsRelay no longer needs to store and replay SPDP messages (:ghpr:`5017`, :ghpr:`5020`)
  - The OpenDDSInternalThread built-in topic has additional detail fields which may be populated by internal threads. (:ghpr:`5026`)

    - The RtpsRelay's event handling threads make use of this feature.
  - RtpsRelay expiration/deactivation is now done by separate timer events instead of during input handling (:ghpr:`5032`)
  - :option:`RtpsRelay -DrainInterval` can drain clients to implement a controlled shutdown (:ghpr:`5063`)

- Added :cfg:prop:`[rtps_discovery]IgnoredSpdpUserTags`. (:ghpr:`5046`)
- When DDS Security is configured to require authentication and an incoming SPDP message has a different Identity CA, authentication is not attempted. (:ghpr:`5046`)

Platform Support and Dependencies
=================================

- ACE/TAO

  - Updated ACE 6/TAO 2 from 6.5.21 to `6.5.22 <https://github.com/DOCGroup/ACE_TAO/releases/tag/ACE%2BTAO-6_5_22>`__.
  - Updated ACE 8/TAO 4 from 8.0.3 to `8.0.4 <https://github.com/DOCGroup/ACE_TAO/releases/tag/ACE%2BTAO-8_0_4>`__.

- CMake

  - :cmake:func:`opendds_target_sources` now has a `FOLDER` argument which sets the CMake FOLDER property on generated targets. (:ghpr:`5009`)
  - Fixed accidental use of RapidJSON's ``CMakeLists.txt`` file when building OpenDDS with CMake. (:ghpr:`5054`)
    This caused issues such as forcing the ``CMAKE_CXX_STANDARD`` to C++11 and breaking the ACE C++ standard detection code.
  - Fixed configure issue with Xerces from vcpkg when building OpenDDS with CMake. (:ghpr:`5054`)

- The configure script detects the C++ standard supported by the Android NDK compiler (:ghpr:`5057`, :ghpr:`5052`)

Fixes
=====

- Reset heartbeat fallback when the sequence number advances. (:ghpr:`5048`)

