# OpenDDS and Android

**How to build OpenDDS for Android and incorperate OpenDDS into Android apps.**

**WARNING: Android support is experimental and not fully supported!**

* [Variables](#variables)
* [Requirements](#requirements)
* [Building OpenDDS for Android](#building-opendds-for-android)
  * [Host Tools](#host-tools)
  * [OpenDDS's Optional Dependencies](#openddss-optional-dependencies)
    * [Java](#java)
    * [OpenSSL](#openssl)
    * [Xerces](#xerces)
* [Cross-Compiling IDL Libraries](#cross-compiling-idl-libraries)
  * [Java IDL Libraries](#java-idl-libraries)
* [Using OpenDDS in a Android App](#using-opendds-in-a-android-app)
  * [Adding the OpenDDS Native Libraries to the App](#adding-the-opendds-native-libraries-to-the-app)
  * [Adding OpenDDS Java Libraries to the App](#adding-opendds-java-libraries-to-the-app)
  * [Network Permissions and Availability](#network-permissions-and-availability)
  * [OpenDDS Configuration Files](#opendds-configuration-files)
  * [Multithreading](#multithreading)
  * [Android Activity Lifecycle](#android-activity-lifecycle)
* [Footnotes](#footnotes)

## Variables

The following table describes some of the variables of paths that are
referenced in this guide. You don't have to actually set and use these, they
are mostly for shorthand.

| Variable     | Description                                      |
| ------------ | ------------------------------------------------ |
| `$DDS_ROOT`  | OpenDDS being built for Android                  |
| `$HOST_DDS`  | [OpenDDS host to help build OpenDDS for Android](#host-tools) |
| `$NDK`       | The Android NDK                                  |
| `$TOOLCHAIN` | The Generated Toolchain                          |
| `$SDK`       | The Android SDK (By default `$HOME/Android/Sdk`) |
| `$STUDIO`    | Android Studio                                   |
| `$JDK`       | The Java SDK                                     |

## Requirements

To follow along this guide and build OpenDDS you will need:

 - A Unix system supported by both OpenDDS and the Android NDK.
   - This guide was developed on a Linux system, but should work on macOS as
     well.
   - On Windows, a virtual Unix system <sup>[1](#footnote-1)</sup> can be used
     to build the OpenDDS and IDL libraries. Then they can be transfered to
     Windows where they can be used in Android Studio as they would be used on
     Linux.
 - OpenDDS 3.14 or higher.
 - The latest [DOC Group ACE/TAO](https://github.com/DOCGroup/ACE_TAO) release.
   OCI ACE/TAO does not have the updated Android NDK support at the time of
   writing. The OpenDDS `configure` script will download and use DOC Group
   ACE/TAO automatically if passed `--doc_group`.
 - [Android Native Development Kit (NDK)](https://developer.android.com/ndk/)
   r18 or higher. You can download it separately from android.com or using the
   SDK Manager that comes with Android Studio. If you download the NDK using the
   SDK Manager, this is located in `$SDK/ndk-bundle`.
 - Some knowledge about OpenDDS and Android development will be assumed, but
   more OpenDDS knowledge will be assumed than Android knowledge.

In addition to those, building OpenDDS with optional dependencies also
have requirements not listed here but will in their own sections.

Integrating OpenDDS into a Android app assumes the use of Android Studio or at
least the Android SDK.

## Building OpenDDS for Android

As Android targets multiple architectures and has many versions, an
architecture and minimum API version to use will have to be decided. As of
writing [this page lists Android version numbers and their corresponding API
versions](https://source.android.com/setup/start/build-numbers). You will have
to do a separate build for each architecture if you want to build OpenDDS for
multiple architectures.

A standalone toolchain is required and can be generated by using
`$NDK/build/tools/make_standalone_toolchain.py`.
For example, to create a toolchain for 32-bit ARM Android 7.0 "Nougat" and
later:

```Shell
$NDK/build/tools/make_standalone_toolchain.py --arch arm --api 24 --install-dir $TOOLCHAIN
```

Once a toolchain is obtained, OpenDDS can be configured to cross compile for
Android by passing `--target=android` and `--macros=ANDROID_ABI=<ARCH>` to the
OpenDDS configure script. The `--arch` argument for
`make_standalone_toolchain.py` and `--macros=ANDROID_ABI=<ARCH>` argument for
the configure script must match according to this table:

<a id="abi-table"/>

| `--arch` | `ANDROID_ABI`           | `$ABI_PREFIX`           | Description                         |
| -------- | ----------------------- | ----------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| `arm`    | `armeabi-v7a`           | `arm-linux-androideabi` | 32-bit ARM                          |
| `arm`    | `armeabi-v7a-with-neon` | `arm-linux-androideabi` | 32-bit ARM with [NEON](#footnote-2) |
| `arm64`  | `arm64-v8a`             | `aarch64-linux-android` | 64-bit ARM                          |
| `x86`    | `x86`                   | `i686-linux-android`    | 32-bit x86                          |
| `x86_64` | `x86_64`                | `x86_64-linux-android`  | 64-bit x86                          |

For example, to build OpenDDS with the toolchain generated in the previous
example, we can use `armeabi-v7a` <sup>[2](#footnote-2)</sup>.

**NOTE**: If you want to use [Java](#java) or [DDS Security](#openssl), read
those sections before configuring and building OpenDDS.

```Shell
./configure --no-tests --doc_group --target=android --macros=ANDROID_ABI=armeabi-v7a
PATH=$PATH:$TOOLCHAIN/bin make # Pass -j/--jobs with an appropriate value or this'll take a while...
```

### Host Tools

To cross-compile OpenDDS, host tools are required to process IDL. The example
above generates two copies of OpenDDS, one in `OpenDDS/build/host` and another
in `OpenDDS/build/target`. If this is the case, then `$HOST_DDS` will be the
absolute path to `build/host` and `$DDS_ROOT` will be the absolute path to
`build/target`.

If building for more than one architecture, which will be necessary to cover
the largest number of Android devices possible, it might make sense to build a
*completely seperate* static build of OpenDDS to cut down on time.

If this is the case, then `$HOST_DDS` will be the location of the static host
tools built for the host platform and `$DDS_ROOT` will just be the location of
the OpenDDS source code.

This should be done with the same version of OpenDDS and ACE/TAO as what you
want to build for Android. The configure script will create a static build if
passed the `--static` option along with your normal options to configure.

If you want to just want the minimum needed for host OpenDDS tools and get rid
of the rest since it's a static build, these are the required binaries:

 * `$HOST_DDS/bin/opendds_idl`
 * `$HOST_DDS/bin/idl2jni` (if using the OpenDDS Java API)
 * `$HOST_DDS/ACE_TAO/bin/ace_gperf`
 * `$HOST_DDS/ACE_TAO/bin/tao_idl`

The make targets for these are `TAO_IDL_EXE` and `opendds_idl`, and
`idl2jni_codegen` if you want to use the OpenDDS Java API. `ace_gperf` will be
built as a side-effect of building the other programs.

The directory structure must be kept but other than that there no limitations
like setting `setenv.sh` on running these binaries. To use these to build
OpenDDS for Android, pass `--host-tools` to the configure script.

### OpenDDS's Optional Dependencies

#### Java

To use OpenDDS in the traditional Android development language, Java, you will
need to build the Java bindings when building OpenDDS. See
[../java/README]([../java/README) for details. For Android you can use the JDK
provided with Android Studio, so `JDK=$STUDIO/jre`. Pass `--java=$JDK` to the
OpenDDS configure script.

#### OpenSSL

OpenSSL is required for OpenDDS Security. Fortunately it comes with a
configuration for Android, please read `NOTES.ANDROID` that comes with
OpenSSL's source code for how to build OpenSSL for Android.

Android preloads the system SSL library (either OpenSSL or BoringSSL) for the
Java Android API, so OpenSSL **MUST** be statically linked to the OpenDDS
security library. The static libraries will used if the shared libraries are
not found. This can be accomplished by either disabling the generation of the
shared libraries by passing `no-shared` to OpenSSL's `Configure` script or just
deleting the `so` files after building OpenSSL.

#### Xerces

Xerces is also required for OpenDDS Security. It does not support Android
specifically, but it comes with a CMake build script that can be paired with
the Android NDK's CMake cross compile file.

Xerces requires a supported "transcoder" library. For API levels greater than
or equal to 28 one of these is included with Android, GNU libiconv. Before 28
any of the transcoders supported by Xerces would work theoretically but GNU
libiconv was the one tested.

<!-- TODO API <28 -->

## Cross-Compiling IDL Libraries

Like all OpenDDS applications, you will need to use type support libraries
generated from IDL files to use most of OpenDDS's functionality.

Assuming the library is already setup and works for a desktop platform, then
you should be able to run:

```Shell
(source $DDS_ROOT/setenv.sh; mwc.pl -type gnuace . && PATH=$PATH:$TOOLCHAIN/bin make)
```

The resulting native IDL library file must be included with the rest of the
native library files.

### Java IDL Libraries

Java support, assuming OpenDDS was built with Java, will available by
inheriting `dcps_java` in your IDL MPC project. This would be built by the same
command as above, except as of writing there is a unresolved bug in the rules
for building Java IDL libraries.

You should run the command above first. Assuming that `$PROJECT` is assigned to
the name of the MPC Project of the IDL code and `$MODULE` is assigned to the
name of the IDL module, these shell commands are a possible workaround for this
bug:

```Shell
(source $DDS_ROOT/setenv.sh; PATH=$PATH:$TOOLCHAIN/bin make -f GNUmakefile.${PROJECT} ${MODULE}TypeSupportJC.h)

# Run the normal make command again
(source $DDS_ROOT/setenv.sh; PATH=$PATH:$TOOLCHAIN/bin make)

(source $DDS_ROOT/setenv.sh; $DDS_ROOT/java/build_scripts/javac_wrapper.pl -sourcepath . -d classes -classpath . -implicit:none -classpath $DDS_ROOT/lib/i2jrt_compact.jar -classpath $DDS_ROOT/lib/i2jrt.jar -classpath $DDS_ROOT/lib/OpenDDS_DCPS.jar ${MODULE}/*
```

This will produce a library with two components: a Java `jar` library file and
a supporting native library `so` file. This native library must be included
with the other native library files, and is different than the regular native
IDL type support library.

## Using OpenDDS in a Android App

After building OpenDDS and generating the IDL libraries, you will need to set
up an app to be able to use OpenDDS.

### Adding the OpenDDS Native Libraries to the App

In your app's `build.gradle` (*NOT THE ONE OF THE SAME NAME IN THE ROOT OF THE
PROJECT*) add this to the `android` section:

```Gradle
    sourceSets {
        main {
            jniLibs.srcDirs 'native_libs'
        }
    }
```

`native_libs` is not a required name, but it needs to contain subdirectories
named after the `ANDROID_ABI` of the native libraries it contains.

The exact list of libraries to include depend on what features you're using but
the basic list of library file for OpenDDS are as follows:

 - If not already included because of a separate C++ NDK project, you must
   include the Clang C++ Standard Library. This is located at
   `$TOOLCHAIN/sysroot/usr/lib/$ABI_PREFIX/libc++_shared.so` where
   `$ABI_PREFIX` is an identifier for the architecture and can be found in the
   [ABI/architecture table](#abi-table).

 - `$DDS_ROOT/lib/libOpenDDS_Dcps.so`
 - `$ACE_ROOT/lib/libACE.so`
 - `$ACE_ROOT/lib/libTAO.so`
 - `$ACE_ROOT/lib/libTAO_AnyTypeCode.so`
 - `$ACE_ROOT/lib/libTAO_BiDirGIOP.so`
 - `$ACE_ROOT/lib/libTAO_CodecFactory.so`
 - `$ACE_ROOT/lib/libTAO_PI.so`

 - The following are the transport libraries, one for each transport type. You
   will need at least one of these, depending on the transport(s) you want to
   use:
   - `$DDS_ROOT/lib/libOpenDDS_Rtps_Udp.so`
     - You will also need `$DDS_ROOT/lib/libOpenDDS_Rtps.so`
   - `$DDS_ROOT/lib/libOpenDDS_Multicast.so`
   - `$DDS_ROOT/lib/libOpenDDS_Shmem.so`
   - `$DDS_ROOT/lib/libOpenDDS_Tcp.so`
   - `$DDS_ROOT/lib/libOpenDDS_Udp.so`

 - The [type support library for your IDL](#cross-compiling-idl-libraries)

 - Required to use InfoRepo Peer Discovery:
   - `$DDS_ROOT/lib/libOpenDDS_InfoRepoDiscovery.so`
   - `$ACE_ROOT/lib/libTAO_PortableServer.so`

 - Required to use OpenDDS Security:
   - `$ACE_ROOT/lib/libACE_XML_Utils.so`
   - `$DDS_ROOT/lib/libOpenDDS_QOS_XML_XSC_Handler.so`
   - `libxerces-c-3.*.so`
   - `libiconv.so` if it is necessary to include it.

 - In addition to the jars listed below, the following native libraries are
   required for using the Java API:
   - `$DDS_ROOT/lib/libtao_java.so`
   - `$DDS_ROOT/lib/libidl2jni_runtime.so`
   - `$DDS_ROOT/lib/libOpenDDS_DCPS_Java.so`
   - The [native part of the Java library for your IDL](#java-idl-libraries)

This list might not be complete, especially if your using a major feature not
listed here.

### Adding OpenDDS Java Libraries to the App

In your app's `build.gradle` (*NOT THE ONE OF THE SAME NAME IN THE ROOT OF THE
PROJECT*) add this to the `dependencies` section if not already there:

```Gradle
    implementation fileTree(include: ['*.jar'], dir: 'libs')
```

Copy these jar files from `$DDS_ROOT/lib` to a directory called `libs` in your
app's subdirectory. Create `libs` if it doesn't exist. Like `native_libs` the
`libs` name isn't required.

 - `i2jrt.jar`
 - `i2jrt_compact.jar`
 - `OpenDDS_DCPS.jar`
 - `tao_java.jar`
 - The [Java part of the Java library for your IDL](#java-idl-libraries)

Also copy the jar files from your IDL Libraries and sync with Gradle if your
using Android Studio. After this OpenDDS Java API should be able to be used
the same as if using OpenDDS with the Hotspot JVM. The exceptions and
particulars to how Android can effect OpenDDS are described in the following
sections.

### Network Permissions and Availability

In `AndroidManifest.xml` you will need to add the network permissions if they
are not already there:

```XML
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.INTERNET" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.ACCESS_NETWORK_STATE" />
```

Failure to do so will result in ACE failing to access any sockets and OpenDDS
will not be able to function.

In addition to this if no networks are active when OpenDDS is initialized, then
the result will similar. It will be up to the app developer to assess
network availability before initializing OpenDDS. On Android this can be done
using the
[ConnectivityManager](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/net/ConnectivityManager),
but the exact method for doing so will depend on the API level and the needs of
the app.

<!-- TODO: Changes in Networks or Loss of Network? -->

### OpenDDS Configuration Files

OpenDDS can use several types of files: a main configuration file, security
configuration files, and security certificate files, among others. On
traditional platforms, distributing and reading these files is usually not an
issue at all. On Android however, an app has no traditional files of it's own
out of the box, so you can't give OpenDDS a path to a file you want to
distribute with the app without preparing beforehand.

If you already have a preferred way to include files in your app, then that
will work as long as you can give OpenDDS the path to the files.

Android can open a file stream for resource and asset files. Ideally OpenDDS
would be able to accept these streams, but it doesn't. One solution to this is
reading the streams into memory and then writing them to files in the app's
private directory. This example is using assets, but resources will also work
with some slight modifications.

```Java
// ...
    private String copyAsset(String asset_path) {
        File new_file = new File(getFilesDir(), asset_path);
        final String full_path = new_file.getAbsolutePath();
        try {
            InputStream in = getAssets().open(asset_path, AssetManager.ACCESS_BUFFER);
            byte[] buffer = new byte[in.available()];
            in.read(buffer);
            in.close();
            FileOutputStream out = new FileOutputStream(new_file);
            out.write(buffer);
            out.close();
        } catch (FileNotFoundException e) {
            e.printStackTrace();
        } catch (IOException e) {
            e.printStackTrace();
        }
        return full_path;
    }
// ...

    @Override
    protected void onCreate(Bundle savedInstanceState) {
        // ...

        final String config_file = copyAsset("opendds_config.ini");
        String[] args = new String[] {"-DCPSConfigFile", config_file};
        StringSeqHolder argsHolder = new StringSeqHolder(args);
        dpf = TheParticipantFactory.WithArgs(argsHolder);
        // ...
    }
// ...
```

This example works but in production code the error handling should be improved
and integrated with the app's initialization. Rewriting the file every time is
not ideal, but OpenDDS's files are small and this method ensures the files are
up-to-date.

### Multithreading

When using a `DataReaderListener`, the callbacks will be using a ACE reactor
worker thread, which can't make changes to the Android GUI directly because
it's not the main thread. To have these callbacks affect changes in the Android
GUI, use something like
[`android.os.Handler`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/os/Handler):

```Java
// ...

import android.os.Handler;

// ...

public class DataReaderListenerImpl extends DDS._DataReaderListenerLocalBase {

    private MainActivity context;

    public DataReaderListenerImpl(MainActivity context) {
        super();
        this.context = context;
    }

    public synchronized void on_data_available(DDS.DataReader reader) {
        StatusDataReader mdr = StatusDataReaderHelper.narrow(reader);
        if (mdr == null) {
            return;
        }
        StatusHolder mh = new StatusHolder(new Status());
        SampleInfoHolder sih = new SampleInfoHolder(new SampleInfo(0, 0, 0,
                new DDS.Time_t(), 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, false, 0));
        int status = mdr.take_next_sample(mh, sih);

        if (status == RETCODE_OK.value) {

            // ...

            Handler handler = new Handler(context.getMainLooper());
            handler.post(new Runnable() {
                @Override
                public void run() {
                    context.tryToUpdateThermostat(thermostat_status);
                }
            });
        }
    }
}
```

### Android Activity Lifecycle

The [Android Activity
Lifecycle](https://developer.android.com/guide/components/activities/activity-lifecycle)
is something that affects all Android apps. In the case of OpenDDS, the
interaction gets more complicated because of the intersection of the similar,
but distinct process lifecycle. The process hosts the activity, but isn't
guaranteed to be kept alive after `onStop()` is called. What makes this worse
for NDK applications is that there doesn't seem to be a way to be warned of the
killing of the process the way Java application can rely on `onDestroyed()`.
For most applications of OpenDDS, this isn't a serious issue but it's not
ideal.

An easy way to make sure participants are cleaned up is created participants in
`onStart()` as might be expected, but always deleting them in `onStop()`, so
that they may be created again in `onStart()`. The `DomainParticpantFactory`
can be retrieved either in `onStart()` or more perhaps appropriately in
[`Application.onStart()`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/app/Application),
given the singleton nature of both.

This might not be ideal or efficient though, because deleting and recreating
participants will happen every the app loses focus, like during orientation
changes. An alternative to this would be running OpenDDS within an [Android
Sevice](https://developer.android.com/guide/components/services) separate from
the main app, but this hasn't been fully explored yet.

## Footnotes

<a id="footnote-1"/>

1. This can be Docker, Bash for Windows, or a traditional VM. The Android NDK
   for Windows might work if the build was set up correctly but this hasn't
   been tested.

<a id="footnote-2"/>

2. The choice to support NEON or not is beyond the scope of this guide. See
   ["NEON Support"](https://developer.android.com/ndk/guides/cpu-arm-neon) for
   more information.
